docs: add migration hub for Pyth Core to Pyth Pro upgrade (#3712)
pyth-network/pyth-crosschain: apps/developer-hub/content/docs/price-feeds/core/upgrade/how-it-works.mdx

---
title: How the Pyth Core upgrade works
description: A technical look at the signers, data flow, and contracts behind the upgrade.
full: true
---

> The Pyth Core upgrade preserves the existing contract interface and Hermes API surface, so existing integrations work without code changes.

Reviewer: @keyvankhademi 
```suggestion
The Pyth Core upgrade leverages the high-performance [Pyth Pro architecture](link) while preserving the existing contract interface and Hermes API surface, so existing integrations work without code changes.
```

> Only the signers and the source of the data change. This page explains the new architecture and how it works.

Reviewer: @keyvankhademi 
I suggest making a Pyth Core vs Upgrade Pyth Core part later in this document and including this there.
That way, we separate one section that deals with how the architecture of upgraded Pyth Core works and another section is comparison between the current Pyth Core and the upgraded

## Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  R1[Router 1] --> H[Upgraded Hermes endpoint]
  R2[Router 2] --> H
  R3[Router 3] --> H
  R4[Router 4] --> H
  R5[Router 5] --> H
  H --> C[Consumer]
  C --> P[Upgraded Pyth Core Contract]
```

## Data flow

> Each tick, routers take the latest aggregated prices from Pyth Pro and construct a Merkle tree using the same leaf format Pythnet uses for Pyth Core. Each router signs the Merkle root independently. The upgraded Hermes endpoint collects roots and price messages from all routers and serves the latest update — the signed root plus per-price Merkle proofs. It does this through the same HTTP and streaming endpoints as Hermes. Consumers fetch the update and submit it to the upgraded Pyth Core Contract, which verifies the router signatures meet quorum and then verifies each price against the root using its Merkle proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each tick, Pyth Pro routers take the latest aggregated prices from Pyth Pro and construct a Merkle tree using the same leaf format Pythnet uses for Pyth Core. Each router signs the Merkle root independently. The upgraded Hermes endpoint collects roots and price messages from all routers and serves the latest update — the signed root plus per-price Merkle proofs. It does this through the same HTTP and streaming endpoints as Hermes. Consumers fetch the update and submit it to the upgraded Pyth Core Contract, which verifies the router signatures meet quorum and then verifies each price against the root using its Merkle proof.
```
make it obvious that these are the same routers we know and love from Pyth Pro and that the reader can learn more about in the Pyth Pro explainer

> Each tick, routers take the latest aggregated prices from Pyth Pro and construct a Merkle tree using the same leaf format Pythnet uses for Pyth Core. Each router signs the Merkle root independently. The upgraded Hermes endpoint collects roots and price messages from all routers and serves the latest update — the signed root plus per-price Merkle proofs. It does this through the same HTTP and streaming endpoints as Hermes. Consumers fetch the update and submit it to the upgraded Pyth Core Contract, which verifies the router signatures meet quorum and then verifies each price against the root using its Merkle proof.

Reviewer: nit: routers don't take the aggregate from somewhere else, they compute the aggregate

> Each tick, routers take the latest aggregated prices from Pyth Pro and construct a Merkle tree using the same leaf format Pythnet uses for Pyth Core. Each router signs the Merkle root independently. The upgraded Hermes endpoint collects roots and price messages from all routers and serves the latest update — the signed root plus per-price Merkle proofs. It does this through the same HTTP and streaming endpoints as Hermes. Consumers fetch the update and submit it to the upgraded Pyth Core Contract, which verifies the router signatures meet quorum and then verifies each price against the root using its Merkle proof.

Reviewer: I think this section should make no references to the current Core. This will become the new How Pyth Core works so we don't want references to the current Core.

The shape of this flow mirrors Pyth Core. The difference is where the Merkle root comes from and who signs it: on the existing system, Pythnet produces the root and Wormhole guardians sign it; in the upgrade, the routers do both.

## Components

### Routers

> Routers build a Merkle tree over the upgraded price aggregate each tick and sign the root. The leaf format matches Pythnet's exactly, which is what makes the resulting update payload byte-compatible with Pyth Core. Five routers, operated independently, each sign the root using the same signature scheme Wormhole guardians use on the existing system.

Reviewer: This is all very fluffy and 90% of the information was already in the Data flow paragraph. Either get rid of these Components paragraphs or get rid of the Data flow paragraph and explain the data flow as you explain the components

Reviewer: The only new information is the 5 routers ran by different entities, but that part could be moved to the data flow part easily like:

> Each tick, five Pyth Pro routers ran by independent entities take the latest aggregated prices

Reviewer: same goes for `Upgraded Hermes endpoint` and `Upgraded Pyth Core Contract`

On the existing Pyth Core, Wormhole guardians observe a Merkle root produced on Pythnet and sign it. With the upgrade, the routers both produce and sign the root.

### Upgraded Hermes endpoint

> The upgraded Hermes endpoint exposes the same API as traditional Hermes — the same endpoints and the same response shapes — at a different URL. It collects signed roots and price messages from all five routers and serves the latest update with the signed root and per-price Merkle proofs. Existing Hermes clients work unchanged when pointed at the upgraded endpoint.

Reviewer: you already said:

> The Pyth Core upgrade preserves the existing contract interface and Hermes API surface

no need to repeat it

### Upgraded Pyth Core Contract

New contracts are deployed at new addresses on the same chains as the existing Pyth Core contracts. They expose the same ABI, so existing integrations work without code changes. The contracts are configured to accept signatures from the five routers with a **3/5** quorum, compared to the existing system's **13/19** Wormhole guardian quorum.

> 

Reviewer: I suggest making a section here highlighting the differences between current Core and upgraded Core.

There are 3 main differences that come to mind:
- quorum/number of guardians
- identity of the guardians (wormhole vs the new routers)
- in current Core, Pythnet generates the merkle tree and guardians only sign the root while in upgraded Core each router aggregates and creates the tree independently

## What this means for consumers

> Upgrading your Pyth Core integration requires two changes: point the client at the upgraded Hermes endpoint, and use the upgraded Pyth Core Contract address in place of the existing Pyth Core contract address. SDK code, payload parsing, and update submission all stay the same.

Reviewer: I don't think it's the job of this page to explain to me how to upgrade.
The job of this page is to explain how the new system works and how it is different from the old one.

Reviewer: I think here something that can work is something like a call to action like:
Pyth Core will be upgraded on July 31st. To avoid potential oracle downtime, make sure you take the appropriate steps by following the _upgrade guide_
